<align>Constitution of the Republic of Syria</align> <align>Part One - Fundamental Principles</align> <align>Chapter I - The Republic of Syria</align> <align>Article 1. 1. Syria is a democratic Arab Republic having complete sovereignty.  2. It is an indivisible political unit. No part ofits territory may be ceded.  3. The Syrian people are a part of the Arab sovereignty and the republican regime, endeavor		</align> <align>Article 2. 1. Sovereignty is vested in the people. No in- dividu a1 or grou p may cl aim it. 2. Sovereignty shall be based upon the principle of government of the people, by the people, and to r the people. 3. The peop ie shall exercise sovereignty within the forms and the limits determined by the Constitution.</align> <align>Article 3. 1. The religion of the President of the Republic Islam. 2. Islamic jurisprudence shall  be  the  main  source of legislation. 3.	Freedom of belief shall  be  safeguarded,  and the  State  shall  respect  all  divine   religions   and shall guarantee the free exercise of  their  rites, provided this does not lead to a breach  of  public  order. 4.	Personal status allairs of religious communities shall be safeguarded and recognized.</align> <align>Article 4. 1. The Arabic 1angu age is the official language Nation,   and   the  State   shalI,  within   the frame  of	of the State. sovereignty   and  the  republican  regime,  endeavor		 2. The Syrian flag shall have a rectangular  form, to  realize  the  unity  of this Nation.	the length being horizontal and equal to double  its width. It shall have three horizontal  and  equal color  bands,  the  upper  green,  the  middle   white, and the lower black. The white portion of the  flag shall  bear,  in  a  horizontal  straight  line  in  its middle, three red five-pointed stars, in a horizontal straight line in its middle,  three  red  five-pointed  stars, dividing its length into  four  equal  parts  and each having a diameter  equal  to  one-half  of  the width of the portion. 3.	The emblem and the National Anthem of the Republic shall be determined by law.</align> <align>Article 5. The Capital of the Republic is Damascus.</align> <align>Article 6. The  territory  of  the  Republic  shall  be  divided into  provinces,  the  order,  number,   9ub-divisions and boundaries of which shall be fixed by law.</align> <align>Chapter II - Democratic Guarantees</align> <align>SECTION 1. PUBLIC RIGHTS</align> <align>Article 7. i.	The conditions of Syrian nationality shall be defined  by  a  law  in  which  special  facilities  shall be accorded to Syrian emigrants, their  descendants, and to Arabs of their various countries. 2. The legal status of foreigners shall be defined  by a law in which international usage and agreement9 shall be observed.</align> <align>Article 8. Citizens shall be equal  in  dignity  and  9ocial  status, and have equal right9 and  obligations  before the law.</align> <align>Article 9. 1. The State shall guarantee  freedom,  security and equal opportunity to all citizens. 2. The freedom of the individual shall be safeguarded.</align> <align>Article 10. 1. Every  person  shall  have  the  right  to  apply  to the courts within the limits of the law. Trials shall be held in public unless the law provides otherwise. 2.  Every  person  shall  be  considered  innocent until convicted by a legal tribunal. 3.	No person  shall  be  searched  except  by  an order or warrant issued by the judicial authoritie9, unless  he  is  arrested  in  the  actual  commission  of a crime, or the judicial authorities on a charge of  having committed a crime or a misdemeanor. 4.	Every person who is arrested must within twenty-four hours, be informed in writing of the reasons for his arrest and the  legal  text  under  which he was arrested. He  shall  be  delivered  to  the judicial authorities within a period not exceeding forty-eight hours after his arrest. 5.	Every detainee has this  right  to  present  in person or through a lawyer, friend, or relative an application to the judge concerned contesting the legality  of  the  arrest.  The   judge   shall   consider this  application  immediately,   and   may   summon the  official  who  ordered  the  arrest  and  question him about the  case.  If  he  finds  that  the  arrest  is  unl awful, he shall order  the  immediate  release  of  the person detained. 6.	Torture or  humiliating  treatment  of  any  person is not permissible. The  penalties  for  anyone doing so will be determined by law. 7. The right of defense is safeguarded  at  all stages of investigation and trial, and before all courts, in accordance with the provisions  of  the law. 8.  The  creation  of   exceptional   criminal   courts is not  permissible  but  special  trial  procedure  shall be prescribed for a state of emergency. 9. None shall be tried except before army personnel. Exceptions to  this  rule  shall  be  determined by law. 10. No  per9on  shall  be  convicted  for  an  act  or  an  omission  not  punishable  by  the  laws   in   force at the time of its occurrence, and no penalty more severe  than  that   prescribed   by   law   at   the   time of the commission or omission shall be imposed. 11.  It  is  not  permissible  to  transfer  the  penalty  of a convicted person and his rights to any other person. 12. Every person against  whom  a  final  sentence has been passed and the penalty executed, if it is proved  that  it  was  a  miscarriage  of  justice,  shall  be entitled to demand compensation  from  the  State for the harm that has been done to him. 13. The administrative authorities have not the right to arrest a person provisionally, except in accordance with 1aw, and during a state of emergency. I4. Prison is a place of  punishment,  and  is  a  means  of  reforming   the  criminal,   and  giving  him a useful education. The Low shall guarantee the implementation of this objective.</align> <align>Article 11. The home shall be inviolable. It is not  permissible to  enter  or  search  them  except  in  the  case   of   a Fla g rant e delict o or by permission of their  owner, or  in  accordance   with   a   judicial   warrant,   or   in a state of emergency  in  accordance  with  provisions of the law.</align> <align>Article 12. Messages conveyed by post or telegraph and telephone and conversations of others are secret. Their   delay, censoring or confiscating is not permissible except in such cases as are defined by law.</align> <align>Article 13. 1. The freedom of opinion is respected and is guaranteed by the State.  Every  Syrian  shall  be entitled to express his opinion freely in speech, in writing, in d r awing and other means of expression. 2. No person shall be  punished  for  the  advocation of his opinions unless he is exceeding the limits defined by law. 3.	Public opinion is sacred and the law shall protect it from elements that divert  it  from  truth and the common good, or encourage dissension among citizens of the country or advocate a change of the system of government by force.</align> <align>Article 14. i.	Press  and  publications  are  free  within  the limits of the law and their social task to society. 2. It is not permitted to suspend or close down  provisions of the law. 3. The law may impose a limited censorship on newspapers, publications, and books, in matters connected with public safety and  national  defense,  and this only during a state of emergency. 4. Procedures of control over the resources of newspapers shall be defined by law. 5.	The  State  and  individuals  concerned  shall  have the right to demand the publication  of  correction and denials or in  accordance  with  provisions of the law.</align> <align>Article 15. Syrians shall have the right of assembly and demonstration in a peaceful manner and without weapons within the limits of the law.</align> <align>Article 16. i.	Syrians shall have the right to  form  societies  and to join them provided that  their  objectives  are  not prohibited by law. 2. The 1aw shall regulate the procedure to be followed  in  informing  the  administrative  authorities of the formation of societies and the system of control over their finances.</align> <align>Article 17. 1. Syrians have the right to  form  and  join political parties provided their objectives are legitimate, their methods peaceful, and their rules democratic. 2.  The  law  shall  regulate  the  procedure   to   be followed in informing the  administrative  authorities of the formation of  political  parties,  and  the  system of control over their finances. The law shall  also require members  of  such  parties  to  elect  their  higher authorities at least once every year  3.	The  law  aims   to   consider   political   parties as institutes working for the creation  of  a  choice group of enlightened and loyal citizens in a democratic  way  to  carry   public   responsibility  as   well as preparing for the people ways and  means  of national education and facilitate for them the fulfillment of their aspirations  in  public  life  leading them towards the realization of their interest in it.</align> <align>Article 18. i.	The deportation of  Syrians  from  the  home1and is not permissible. 2. Every Syrian has the right of residence and movement within the territory of Syria unless forbidden to do so by a j udicial order or by legal provisions relating to health or public safety.</align> <align>Article 19. 1. Refugees shall  not  be  extradited  because  of their   political   beliefs  or   their   defense  of freedom. 2. International agreements and laws shall define the procedure  for extradition  of  ordinary criminals.</align> <align>Article 20. 1. The  Iamily  is  the  cornerstone  of  society,  and  is under the protection of the State. The State shall protect and encourage marriage and shall remove material and social obstacles which hinder it. 2. Every mother is entitled to the protection and assistance of society. 3.	Childhood is under the protection  of  society.  The  education  of   children   is  a   natural   right  and a social duty of parents and the  State  shall  watch them carry out this task.</align> <align>Article 21. i.	Education and learning are rights of every citizen. 2. Education must aim at the creation of a generation strong in body  and  mind,  and  in  personality, believing in God, possessing a virtuous character,  proud  of  its  Arab  heritage,   equipped with  knowledge,  aware  of  its  duties,  watchful   of its rights and freedom, working for  the  national interest and the general Arab interest,  and  imbued with  the  spirit  of  unity   and   brotherhood   among all citizens. All education inconsistent with the objective mentioned in this Paragraph shall be prohibited. 3.	In order to realize the objectives of education and teaching and to implement a stable educational policy, Council of Education  shall  be  formed  in the State, whose task shall be to propose to the government the plans and programs making education in  its  various  degrees  and  forms  achieve its objectives in view. The law shall define the number of members of the Council of Education, their qualifications and the manner of their appointment.    4.	The  State  shall  have   the   right   to   supervise  all educational institutions in the country. Such supervision shall be  regulated by  law.  The  State alone shall have  the  right  to  grant  school  certificates and to classify them. 5.	Elementary education is compulsory and shall have unified programs. It shall be free in State schools. Private elementary schools are obliged to apply  the   programs   adopted   by   the   State.   They  may  teach  additional  subjects  as  may   be   defined by  law.  Secondary,  voC ational  and  rural  education is f ree in State schools. The  State  shall  give  priority in budgets for the expansion Of elementary and vocational and rural education, Ih order to  achieve equa lity among citizens and to base  the  national   vival on sound foundations facilitating the utilization of the country’s land and  industrial  wealth. The Low shall define the subjects which private secondary schools shall be required to teach in accordance with the  programs  of  the  State.  Religious teaching I or each rel igion in all the aforementioned stages  shall  be  in  accordance  with  its own creed. The State shall work to make higher education  accessible.  Its   institutions   shshall enjoy financial and administrative independence. 6.	The State shall  adopt  athletic,  scouting  and youth movements ill Schools, societies and clubs, and   sha11   work   for   their   protection,   strengthening and propagation, and encourage scientific rese arch. 7. The State shall protect arts and  sciences,  promote their progress and propagation, and encourage scientific research. 8. The State shall place the means of general education within the reach of the people. 9. The State shall protect antiquities and  ancient sites and all objects of artistic or historical value. 10. The State shall protect  and  preserve  the national cultural heritage and encourage its dissemination.</align> <align>Article 22. 1.  Every  citizen,  together   with   his   family,   has the right to  be  guaranteed  either  by  the  State directly or by  organizations  set  up  for  the  purpose in cases of emergency, sickness, disability, orphanhood, old age, and involuntary unemployment. i1.  In  the  accomplishment  of  this  objective,   a social security system shall be set up in which the State, organizations  and  individuals  shall  cooperate  to secure the necessary funds.</align> <align>Article 23. The State shall protect the health of citizens  and shall establish hospitals, sanatoria, maternity homes, nurseries, and child homes for their benefit. It  shall also facilitate for them means of medical  treatment and shall attend to pregnant women, foster mothers and babies.</align> <align>Article 24. It shall not be permissible to impose compulsory work on anybody, except by law  in  the  following cases: (a)	The performance of  cultural,  constructional and health services. (b)	The combatting of public calamities. (c)	In a state of emergency.</align> <align>Article 25. 1.  Every  Syrian  shall  have  the  right   to   hold public  posts  in  accordance   with   conditions   fixed by Iaw. 2.  Appointment  to  public   posts,   whether   temporary or permanent, in the State, in departments attached to it and in municipalities, shalI  be effected by the  system  of  general  competition,  except  in cases where the law provides otherwise. 3. Acquired rights of public officials shall be guaranteed  and  may  be  cl aimed  in  a  court  of  law. A  public  oflicial  shall  have  the  right  to  be  reinstal led in his post  after  performing  military service. 4.	The law shall define conditions for the punishment of an offset a1, his dismissal from  service,  and his retirement on pension. 5.	The  officials  are  appointed  for   the  benefit  of aII the people. The 1 aw shall guarantee the  protection of the interest of the people by removing political  interests  from  the  work   of   officials   and  by the safeguarding of their right to dignity, security,   a  sufficient salary,   and   promotion   according to seniority and competence.</align> <align>Article 26. i.	Military service is  compulsory  and  shall  be regul ated by 1 aw. 2. A Council for National Defense shall be established. Its jurisdiction and the number of its members shall be determined by law.</align> <align>Article 27. High Treason,  in  the  strict  sense,  is  taking  up arms against the homeland, joining the enemies, or granting them help or assistance.</align> <align>Article 28. 1. This Constitution does  not  contain  any  provision specific ally enumerating the rights of citizens. They  have  all  the  rights  which  are  not clearly stated as pertaining to the State. The law shall safeguard and confirm  these  rights  so  long  as  they do  not  conflict  with  the  rights  of   others  or   with the interest of society. 2. Every law related to a fundamental right  of citizens or limiting such right in reliance on pro-  visions of the Constitution  shall  refer  to  the  specific right and the relative Article. In no  circumstance shall a  law  include  a  provision  which  in effect cancels any of these rights. 3	The judiciary shall  protect  the  citizen  against the public authority’s encroachment upon his rights.</align> <align>SECTION 2. ORGAN I ZING  NATIONAL HEALTH</align> <align>Article 29. 1. Proprietorship, capital, and work are the fundamental elements  of  national  wealth.  They  are all individual rights of social  importance.  They must be regulated and directed in order to insure strength for the homeland, and dignity, cooperation, and an appropriate standard of living  of citizens. 2. The elements of national wealth shall be organized in such a way as to realize social justice. 3. Economic life shall be directed in accordance  with the interest of the people as a whole. 4	Within  the  sphere  of  these   objectives,   the  law shall guarantee economic freedom for every citizen.</align> <align>Article 30. 1. A Council for National Wealth shall be established in the State. Its task will be to propose plans and programs for the purpose  of  increasing the country’s agriculture, industrial, and commercial potentialities, and to provide work for all citizens. 2. The law shall determine the number of this Council’s members and the manner of their selection..</align> <align>Article 31. 1. The State may nationalize by law any organization or project  connected  with  the  public  interest in return for just compensation. 2. Organizations enjoying financial and administrative independence may be created for  the  execution and administration  of  specific  projects.  This shall be done by a law defining the number of the members  of  their  administrative  bodies,  the  manner of their selection, and the manner of their supervision.</align> <align>Article 32. The funds which the State shall spend on irrigation and land improvement projects shall be recovered  from  those   benefiting  from  them   within a  period  commensurate  with  their  ability,  to  be fixed by law.</align> <align>Article 33. 1. Taxes will be imposed for the public good. 2. Taxes shall be fixed  in  money.  The  law  may not provide for the  imposition  of  a  tax  in  kind except in exceptional cases.  3.	No tax may be imposed, amended, or abolished except by law. 4.	No person shall be exempted from the  payment of the tax or part thereof except in the cases  1aid down by law. 5.	No person shall be required to pay  the  tax  except in the manner prescribed by law. 6.	Taxes shall be imposed on a just and progressive basis, ensuring the principles of equality  and social justice and taking into  consideration  the number of members of the  family  of  the  taxpayer for whose support he is responsible.</align> <align>Article 34: Property is public and private i.	The State, legal persons, and individuals may own property within the limits of the law. 2. The Low shall regulate the ownership by foreigners, its limits and conditions. j.  Private  property  shall   be   respected,   within the limits of compatibility with public interest and social justice. The Low shall  define  the  methods  of its acquisition and disposition in  a  manner  ensuring its social function and contributing to the national production. 4.	No person shall be permitted to use private property in  a  manner  conflicting  with  public interest. 5.	The Low shall guarantee the rights of  individuals to protect their material  and  immaterial  interests  accruing  to  them  as  a  result  of  their material and mental production. 6.	Expropriation for the public good is  permissible and shall be effected by  law  providing  for the payment of just compensation. 7Mines, solid,  fluid  and  radioactive  minerals, and the like, the hidden resources  beneath  the surface, mineral and sea waters, waterfalls, public forests, public roads, and all national resources and  public  utilities  are  the  property  of   the  State. So also is the strata of the atmosphere  as  from  a height to be fixed by law. The law shall specify the conditions for granting licenses for prospecting for minerals and the like. The right to exploit minerals and the like shall be granted by  law  in  which  priority  shall  be  given to defense considerations and the maintenance  of the country’s freedom. No preferential or monopoly concession for the exploitation of any of the country's natural resources or  of  a  public service  may be granted except by law and for a limited period.</align> <align>Article 35. i.	To ensure the proper utilization of the I and, legislation  based  upon  the   following   principles shall be enacted: (a)	An  obligation  to   utilize   the   land   shall be laid down and,  if  I and  is  neglected  for  a period to be fixed by law, the right  to its  possession shall be forfeited.   (b)	The encouragement of small and medium holdings. (c)	The  fixing  of  a  maximum  area  of   lands to  be  owned,  utilized,  or  disposed  of   according to districts ; such provisions shall not have a retroactive effect. (d)	The improvement of production and the methods thereof. 2. The State shall distribute from its lands to landless peasants state lands sufficient to  ensure their living, either free or for a small payment. 3. The State shall establish model villages and centers for agricultural experimentation.</align> <align>Article 36. 1. General confiscation of property is prohibited. 2. Special confiscation of property shall not be imposed except by a judicial order. 3.	Special confiscation may  be  imposed  by  law  for war necessities and public calamities.</align> <align>Article 37. i.	Capital shall  serve  the  national  economy  and its various forms of investment  shall  not  conflict  with the interest of the people as a whole. 2. The law shall prohibit monopoly.</align> <align>Article 38. 1. The State may not contract a  public or  private loan except by a law which shall define the conditions, the rate of interest, and the method of repayment. 2. The State is not  permitted  to grant  or  guarantee a loan except by Low. 3. The law  shall  define  the  procedure  relating  to contracts and tenders which involve expenditure from the State Treasury.</align> <align>Article 39. 1. Work is the right of all citizens and  a  duty dictated by common social life in the  same  homeland.  It  is  the  most  important   basic   element   in the economic and  social  structure  of  the  country. The State shall  guarantee  employment  for  its citizens. 2. Every Syrian shall be free to choose his profession. 3. The State shall protect  work  and  shall  supervise  the  establishment  of  just  social   relations among  the  citizens,  for  which  purpose  it  shall  enact legislation which shall be based upon the following principles: (a)	Workers shall be given wages commensurate with  the  quantity  and  quality  of  their work. (b)	Weekly  hours  of  work  shall  be  limited and weekly  and  annual  days  of  rest  with  pay shall be granted.  (c)	The provision of special compensation for workers with families and in cases of discharge, sickness, disability, and emergencies  resulting from the work. (d)	Specification of special conditions for the work of women  and  juveniles  providing  them with adequate protection. (e ) Wages of women, when  circumstances  are the same, shall be made equal to  the  wages  of  men. (f)	Prohibition  of  profiteering,   exploitation and bribes of all types. (g)	Encouragement of the method of collective contracts  and  encouragement  of  giving  the  worker a share in the production of the profits. (h)	Factories must comply with health and sanitary conditions. (i)	The provision of sanitary housing for workers. The  law  shall  define  the  methods thereof. (j ) Encouragement of the formation of cooperative societies which  shall  be  supervised  by the State. 4. Workers shall have the right to  defend  their  trade  and   professional   interests   and   to   organize in trade unions  to  facilitate  the  exercise  of  this right. (a)	Trade unions have a legal  status.  They  are purely professional and national organizations. (b)	The State shall encourage labor union organizations and shall guarantee their freedom within the limits of the law. The  State  shall protect them from political influence and shall assist in developing the influence of labor unions for the increase  of  the  national  economy  and the raising of the standard of living of the productive classes. (c)	The State shall promote labor union federations, shall dissuade them from harmful competition, and shall direct them towards cooperation. 5.	“Workers” in this Article means laborers, farmers, and  agricultural  workers.  The  principles of legislation mentioned in the Article shall be applied to each category according to circumstances.</align> <align>Part  Two - Sovereign  Powers</align> <align>Article 40. The people shall exercise their sovereignty through the  Chamber  of  Deputies,  the  President  of the Republic, and the Judiciary.</align> <align>Chapter I - Legislative Power</align> <align>Article 41. i.	The   legislative   power   shall   be   undertaken by the Chamber of Deputies elected by the people in a general, secret, direct and uniform ballot in accordance with the provision of the Electoral Law. 2.	A Deputy represents the entire people. His mandate may not be limited by any restriction or condition.  He  shall  perform  his  mandate,   guided by his honor and experience.</align> <align>Article 42. i.	The term of the Chamber is four full years beginning from the  date  of  the  decree  announcing the results of the elections. The term may not be extended except in  time  of  war  by  a  law  which shall be proposed by the President  of  the  Republic and approved  by  the  vote  of  the  absolute  majority of the Deputies. 2.  The  Chamber  may  decide  to   dissolve   itself by the vote of the absolute majority of its members.</align> <align>Article 43. Electors, males  and  females,  are  citizens  who have  completed  their  18th  year  on  january   1   of the year in which the election takes place, who are registered in the Civil Status Register  and  comply with the conditions laid down in the Electoral Law.</align> <align>Article 44. Every person possessing the right to  elect  may  stand as  candidate  for  membership  of  the  Chamber if he  is  educated,  has  completed  twenty-five  years of  age  and  if  he  fulfills  the  conditions  prescribed in the Electoral Law.</align> <align>Article 45. 1. The Low shall define the  electoral  constituencies. The number of Deputies shall be in the pro portion of one Deputy  to  at  least  every  5o,ooo Syrian inhabitants of the constituency, or  a  part thereof exceeding one-half of this number. 2.	Elections shall be held in one stage, and the candidate who  obtains  the  largest  number  of  votes of the electors shall be considered successful. 3.	The Electoral Law shall include provisions guaranteeing: (a)	The correctness of the elections and the punishment of those falsifying them. (b)	The equal right of the candidates to supervise the electoral operations. (c)	The  punishment  of  those  confusing  the will of the electors.</align> <align>Article 46. 1.  The  elections  shall  be  held  within   the   6o days preceding the expiration of the term of the Chamber. 2.  If  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  dissolves   itself the elections for the new Chamber shall  be  held  within 6o days of the date of the dissolution.  3.	If the holding of the elections is delayed, the Chamber shall investigate the causes and  determine the responsibility for the delay. 4.	The decree announcing the results of the elections shall be issued within a period not exceeding ten  d ays from  the  day of  the election.  If for some reason  or  other  elections are  not held or the results of the election not known in some constituencies, the seats assigned to these constituencies shall be considered temporarily vacant until the results of their elections  are announced  in a supplementary decree. To be issued, the decree announcing the results of the elections ha9 to cover more than two-thirds of the seats. 5.	In all cases the Chamber  shall  retain  its authority  until  the  decree   announcing   the   results of the elections is issued.</align> <align>Article 47. i.	The  Chamber  of  Deputies  shall  be  convened by a decree within 20 days following the day of election.  It   shall   definitely   meet  on  the  20  day  if  no  decree  is  issued,  or  the  day  following  the day on which  the  term  of  the old  Chamber  expires, if this Chamber has not completed its  terms  by  the end of the zo days referred to above. i1. At its first  meeting  the  Chamber  shall  elect its President and the members of its Office.</align> <align>Article 48. 1. The Chamber shall meet  in  ordinary  session from the beginning of October to  the  end  of February. i1. Outside this session the  President  of  the Chamber shall summon extraordinary sessions by  order of the Chamber’s office or  at  the  written request of one-fourth of its members, or of its Permanent Committee, or of the President of the Republic, provided that the summons shall specify items on the agenda.</align> <align>Article 49. 1. The Deputies shall not be answerable  in  a criminal or  a  civil  action  for  the  facts  they  state, the views they express, or for  their  voting  in  public or secret meetings, or in the meetings of the committees. i1. A Deputy shall be entitled to refuse to testify against persons who have confided to  him  certain facts  in  his  capacity  as  a  Deputy,   or   to  testify   on these I acts themselves. 3.	Deputies shall enjoy immunity during the ordinary and extraordinary sessions of the  Chamber, and shall not without  permission  from the  Chamber be liable to criminal  prosecution  or  to the  execution of  a  criminal  sentence.  The  Chamber,  however, shall  give  its  decision  within  ten  days  of  the receipt of the request for such permission and  its failure to do  so shall  be  tantamount  to  the granting of permission. A Deputy may be detained only in the case  of  Flagrante  deficit,  and  in  such  a  case, the Chamber shall be promptly informed. 4.	In case  a  Deputy  is  prosecuted  or  arrested when  the  Chamber  is  not  in  session  the   President of the Chamber shall be immediately informed.  In  order to restore immunity  to  the  prosecuted  or arrested Deputy,  the  Chamber  shall  give  a  decision to this effect during the first  io  days  of  the  following session  and  this  only  in  cases  other  than  those of fla grante delict o. 5. The immunity of the  members  of  the  Permanent Committee of the  Chamber  shall  be  considered as extending beyond the times of the Chamber’s meetings. 6.	A Deputy shall lose his seat as  a  result  of  a legal  verdict  or  other  emergency  making  him  f ail  to  possess  the  conditions  of   nomination   provided by the Electora1 Law.</align> <align>Article 50. Before a Deputy assumes his duties he shall take the following oath publicly before the Chamber: I swear  by  God  and  by  my  honor  to  be  loyal to  the  Constitution  and  the  laws  of  the  country, to respect and to defend them and defend the freedoms, interests, property, and dignity of the people,  and  the  independence  of  the   homeland and  its  republican  regime  and  to   perform   the task of Deputy with honor, truthf ulness  and devotion, and to work for the perfection of the freedom of the  Arab  Nation  and  the  achievement of its unity. </align> <align>Article 51. The Deputies shall be  given  by  law  an  appropriate compensation enabling them to devote themselves to their duties and guaranteeing their independence of opinion.</align> <align>Article 52. The  resignation  of  a  Deputy  shall  be  considered as eIf ective from the time of its registration in the Office of the Chamber.</align> <align>Article 53. i.	A Deputy may not exploit his parliamentary position in any business. 2.	The law shall define the  practices  which  shall not be performed during his pa rliamentary position.</align> <align>Article 54. If a parliamentary seat becomes vacant for some reason  or  other  a  decree  shall  be  issued   fixing   a date for the election of a Deputy for  that  seat within two months of the vacation of the seat, provided that the remaining period  of  the Chamber is not less than six months. The term of the new member shall expire with the termination of the mandate of the Chamber.</align> <align>Article 55. i.	Internal Rules  for  the  Chamber  shall  determine the procedure of debates, discussions,  ques tions,  voting,  the  special  duties  of  the  Ofhce  and the committees, and its other work. 2.  The  Internal  Rules  sh aII  have  the  force  of law. They may not be  amended  except  in  accordance with their own provisions.</align> <align>Article 56. 1. Every year at the beginning of  the  October  session the Chamber shall be presided by its eldest members  with  the  two   youngest   members   acting as  secretaries.  The  President  of  the  Chamber  shall be  elected  immediately  and  also  the  members   of the Ch amber’s Ofice in accordance  with  the  In ternal Rules. 2. The President of  the Chamber  shall  be eleted by the absolute majority of the total number of Deputies. The majority  of  Deputies  present  shall be  susicient  at  a  second  ballot   and   a   relative ma jority at a third.</align> <align>Article 57. 1. The President of the Chamber shall maintain order inside the Chamber. i1. The Chamber shall have a  special  guard  receiving  orders  from  its   President.   No   other armed  force  shall  enter  the  Chamber  or  be  posted in its neighborhood except at the request of its President.</align> <align>Article 58. 1. The sessions of the Chamber cannot be  held  unless the absolute majority of the Deputies  are present. i1. The Internal Rules shall determine the responsibility of the Deputy who  absents  himself without a legitimate excuse.</align> <align>Article 59. 1. The sessions of the Chamber shall be public. i1. At the request of the President of  the Republic or at least one-fourth of the Deputies present, the Chamber may decide on holding secret sessions to discuss certain matters. Such decision shall be reached by secret ballot. ii1. The minutes of the open sessions shall be published in the official gazette iv. The provisions of the above Article shall  also apply  to  the  sessions  of  the  Permanent  Committee of the Chamber of Deputies.</align> <align>Article 60. 1. The voting in the Chamber shall  be conducted  in accordance with the procedure prescribed in its Internal Rules.  2. Only Deputies present shall have the right to vote. 3. The elections shall be held by secret ballot. 4. The Chamber shall  make  its  decisions  by  the majority  of  those  present  unless  the   Constitution or  the  Intern a1  Rules  provide  otherwise.   Should the votes be equal, the proposal  under  discussion  shall be rejected.</align> <align>Article 61. 1. The Chamber of Deputies shall examine the objections lodged against the validity  of  the  elections of the members. An objection shall not be accepted if submitted  3o  days  after  the  issuing  of the decree announcing the results  of  the  elections. The Chamber shall decide on the objections within three months after the  last  day  where  on  they  may be accepted. The Chamber’s recess  shall  not  be counted in these three months. The Chamber’s decisions in connection with the validity of  the  election shall for two weeks  be  liable  to  appeal  before the  Supreme  Court,  provided  that  such   an   appeal is signed by at least one-fourth of the Deputies. 2. The Chamber of Deputies  shall  also  be  entitled  to  decide  by   a   two-thirds   majority   of   all its members to deprive a Deputy  of  his  parliamentary position because of his acts or publicly declared opinions against  the  country’s  independence or because of his advocating the change of government by force, if  this  was  proposed  by  at  least a fourth of the Deputies.</align> <align>Article 62. 1. The Chamber of Deputies shall have the right  to delegate some of its members or to form ParIiamentary Committees to investigate certain matters. In this connection, the Executive Power shall facilitate the task of the Chamber’s  representatives and supply them with documents, statements, and information required. 2. Every member of the Chamber is entitled to direct in the appropriate  Committee  and  through the  Presidency  of  the  Chamber  an  interpellation to the Executive Power,  which  shall  reply  or ally or in writing within the period prescribed by the Internal Rules of the Chamber.</align> <align>Article 63. 1. The Executive Power  may  delegate  Ministers and officials  representing  it  to  attend  the  meetings of  the  Parliamentary  Committees  to  give  its  point of view on matters under study  by  these  committees. 2. The Parliamentary  Committees  shall  be  entitled to ask the Executive Power to delegate  Ministers and  officials  representing  it  to  give  its  point  of view on matters under study, or to give explanations regarding matters within its competence.</align> <align>Article 64. 1. Treaties a fleeting the safety or finances of the State, or the status of persons, or  the  rights  of property of Syrians abroad, peace treaties, commercial  treaties,  and  any  other  treaty  valid   for more  than  one  year,  and  every   treaty   involving the  amendment  of  some  effective  International Laws, shall not be  confirmed  by  the  President  of  the Republic except after  approval  by  the  Chamber of Deputies by a Low. 2. Treaties approved by  the  Chamber  of  Deputies, and confirmed  and  published  by  the  President of the Republic, shall, upon coming into force, be regarded as enacting an amendment to previously existing Internal Laws conflicting with them. 3.	Treaties which are in  force  and  which  have been approved by the Chamber  of  Deputies  shall have preference over Internal  Laws.  Their  provisions may not be amended, cancelled or suspended except after a notification in the manner prescribed therein or in accordance with international usage.</align> <align>Article 65. The Chamber of Deputies has the right by the absolute majority of its members to grant general amnesty for offenses committed before the  proposal for the amnesty.</align> <align>Article 66. i.	Introducing  bills  shall  be  equally  the   right  of the President of the  Republic  and  of  every Deputy. 2. Financial laws, however, which aim at the abolition or reduction of a tax, or exemption  from some of  it,  or  which  aim  at  the  allocation  of  a  part of the State funds for a  project,  or  at  borrowing, or guaranteeing  or  repayment  of  loans,  may only be proposed  by  the  President  of  the  Republic or by at 1 east one-fourth of the Deputies.</align> <align>Article 67. 1. The general budget shall be prepared by the Executive Power  and  the  Chamber  of  Deputies alone shall have the right to pass it. 2. Each fiscal year shall have one general budget comprising the ordinary  revenues  and  expenditures. It  will  not  be  permissible   to   create   independent or supplementary budgets except by Low. 3.	The beginning of the fiscal  year  shall  be fixed by Low. 4.	The  President  shall  submit   to   the  Chamber of Deputies  the  plan  of  the  general  budget  for every fiscal year at least three months before the beginning of such year. 5.	The Executive Power may, in case of need, submit a plan for an extraordinary budget for more than one year, comprising extraordinary  revenue and expenditure. It shall not come into force except after its approval by the Chamber of Deputies.  6.	The budget law may only comprise purely financial provisions. It may not provide for the introduction  of  new  taxes  or   services   requiring new expenditure. The provisions of  the  budget  Low shall only be implemented during  the  period  fixed for it. 7 The  Chamber  of  Deputies  may   not,  during the  study  of  the  budget,  increase  the  estimates   of  revenues and expenditures. 8. The Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies may  amend  the  draft  budget,  subject  to  the provisions of the preceding Paragraph. 9. The Deputies may not propose an increase in  an item of expenditure or introduce new expenditures after  the  Budget  Committee  has  drawn  up its report on the draft budget. 10. The Deputies shall  vote  on  the  general  or the extraordinary budget article by article. 11. The Executive Power shall not exceed the maximum of the estimated  expenditure  for  each public department. The  budget  law  shall  not  include provisions permitting it  to  do  so.  Nor  may new, additional, or transferable  appropriations  be made except by  law.  The  final  accounts  for  the fiscal year shall be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies during a period not exceeding  two  years after the end of that year. These accounts shall be closed by l aw. 12. Should the Chamber of Deputies be unable to pass the draft budget before the  start  of  the  fiscal year  for  which  it  has  been  made,  temporary monthly  appropriations  shall  be  made  by  decree, on  the  basis   of   the   financial   appropriations   of the preceding year, and the revenue  shall  be  collected in accordance with the  laws  in  force  at  the end of that year. 13. The Chamber of Deputies  may,  after  the passage of the budget, pass  laws  for  the  introduction  of  new   expenditures   and   revenues   required to meet them.</align> <align>Article 68. The law sha11 determine the procedure for the drawing up, approval, and implementation of local budgets, and the closing of their accounts.</align> <align>Article 69. The  President  of  the  Republic  shall,   at   least once a year, send to the Chamber of Deputies a statement on the country’s financial situation.</align> <align>Article 70. The monetary system  shall  be  regulated  and official banks shall be established by law.</align> <align>Article 71. 1.  the   Bureau  of  Accountancy  shall  be  attached to the Chamber of Deputies,  and  shall  be  considered as its adjunct.  2. The budget of the Bureau of  Accountancy shall  be part of the budget of the Chamber of Deputies. 3. The cadre, pre-requisite qualifications and the immunity of the members of the Bureau of Accountancy as well as the  method  of  control  over cases  subject  to  their  control   shall   be  defined   by a law the draft of which is to be prepared by  the Bureau of the Chamber. 4. The Chamber of Deputies  shall  elect  the members of the Bureau of Accountancy by a  majority of the votes of those  present.  If  such  majority is  not  obtained,  then  voting  shall  be  renewed,  and a relative majority shall be sufficient. The election shall be made from a list  prepared  by the Office  of  the Chamber, containing double the number of members to be elected. The same method shall be followed in the event of one or more vacancies occurring in the membership of the Bureau of Accountancy. The Chamber of  Deputies  shall  elect from among the members of the Bureau of Accountancy  a  president  for  the  Bureau  for  a  period of four  years,  and  his  re-election  is  permissible. The election of the president of the Bureau of Accountancy shall be by the majority of the  Deputies present. If such a majority is not obtained, the voting shall be  repeated,  and  a  relative  majority shall be sufficient. The Chamber of Deputies  may, upon  the  proposal  of  the  office  of  the  Chamber and with the  approval  of  the  majority  of  its members  present,  terminate  services  of   a  member of the Bureau of Accountancy. 5. The Bureau of Accountancy shall examine, on behalf  of  the  Chamber  of  Deputies,   the  accounts of the State and submit to it general reports  containing its views, observations and a statement indicating violations committed, and the responsibilities therefor. 6.	The Chamber of Deputies may charge the Bureau of Accountancy with any investigation or study relative to revenues and expenditures of the administration of the Treasury.</align> <align>Article 72. If the Chamber of  Deputies  rejects  a  bill,  it shall not be re-introduced except after the beginning of the ordinary session following  the session  in which it was rejected.</align> <align>Article 73. If the Chamber of Deputies passes a bill, the President  of  the  Republic  shall  promulgate   it within  fifteen  days  of  the  day  on  which  it   was sent to him. If,  however,  the  Chamber  by  an absolute majority  of  its  members  decides  that  the bill is of an urgent nature, it shall be promulgated within the  period  fixed  therein.  official  holidays shall not be counted  in  calculating  the  period allowed for promulgation.</align> <align>Article 74.   i.	If the President of the Republic finds  it  necessary that a certain Low should be  reconsidered,  he shall return it  to  the  Chamber  within  the  period fixed for its  promulgation,  with  a  message  containing reasons for his actions. 2. Should the Chamber insist upon the low by a two-thirds  majority  of  its  members,  the  law  shall  be promulgated immediately. The voting of the Deputies in such a case shall  be  publicly,  and  by  “yes”   or   “no,”   and   the   names   of   those   voting    for or   against   proposal    shall    be    published    in    the official gazette</align> <align>Article 75. 1. If at least one-fourth of the members of the Chamber of Deputies, or one-fourth of the members of its Permanent Committee, object to a bill as unconstitutional prior to its promulgation, or the President of the Republic refers it to the Supreme Court on the grounds that it is inconsistent with the Constitution, its publication will be suspended until the Supreme Court gives its decision thereon it. 2. If the Supreme Court decides that the law is inconsistent with the Constitution,  it  will  be  returned to the Chamber of Deputies or to  its  Permanent Committee for rectification  of  the  constitutional in fraction. 3. If the Supreme Court does not give its decision on the bill within ten working days or within five working days in the case of an urgent bill, the President of the Republic shall promulgate the law. 4.  If  the  Supreme  Court  is  of  the  opinion   that the  law   is  constitutional,  it  shall   be  considered   to have been  promulgated  from  the  date  of  expiration of the constitutional interval allowed for its promulgation.</align> <align>Article  76. If the President of the Republic does not  promulgate the law within its  statutory  period,  does  not return  it  to  the  Chamber,  or  does  not  send  it  to   the Supreme Court within the same period,  the President of the Chamber of Deputies shall promulgate it and it shall become effective.</align> <align>Article 77. The  Chamber  of  Deputies  shall  not  relinquish to the President of the Republic its power of legislation.</align> <align>Article 78. The Chamber of Deputies shall elect, before the expiration of each ordinary session, a Permanent Committee whose mission will extend to the  beginning  of  the  next  ordinary  session  and  shall  consist of at least one-fourth  of  the  members  of  the Chamber of Deputies. (a ) The election of the members of the Permanent Committee shall be by absolute majority of the members. If this is not obtained, the election shall be repeated and a majority  of  those  present shall be sufficient. At a third  ballot  a relative  majority  shall  suffice.  Care  shall   be  taken that this Committee contains  elements  from the various ordinary committees of the  Chamber. The Deputy elected to this Committee may not decline to serve without giving legitimate justification. (b)	The President of the Chamber of Deputies shall be chairman of the Permanent Committee. (c)	This Committee shall be, outside the  sessions of the Chamber, in continuous sessions. (d)	The Permanent Committee shall be charged with the duty of representing the  Chamber  before the  Executive  Power,  when  the  Chamber  is  not in session. It shall also have the power of conducting investigations. (e)	Whenever the  Chamber  is  not  in  session the  Permanent  Committee  shall  be  vested   with its legislative power and  shall take  decisions  on its behalf by an  absolute  majority of  its members on  all   matters   which   the  government,   either   to facilitate its work or  owing  to  the  urgent  nature of the matter  itself  deem  necessary  that  laws should be promulgated in relation thereto. Such matters shall neither include the ratification of treaties involving the amendment  of  some  effective Internal Laws, nor  the  app royal  of  gen eral or  exceptional  budget  projects,  nor  bills whose enactment requires at least an absolute majority  vote  of  the  members  of  the  Chamber, nor  shall  the  taking   of   decisions   in   execution of Paragraphs  e,  g,  and  h  of  Article  92  I all within the competence of this Committee. (I) Should  the  President  of  the  Republic  find it necessary that a certain bill approved by the Permanent  Committee  should   be   recons ide red, he shall return it to  the  Committee  within  the period specified for its  promulgation,  accompanied  by  a  memorandum  stating  his   reasons. The  Chamber  of  Deputies  will  then   reconsider the bill in its next session in accordance with provisions of paragraph 2 of article 74. (g) Bills approved  by  the  Permanent  Committee  shall  after  promulgation  be  deposited  at the  Office  of  the  Chamber.  Motions  of   Deputies to amend or repeal such 1aws during  the succeeding   ordinary   session    shall    be    considered    as urgent.</align> <align>Chapter II - Executive Power</align> <align>SECTION  1.  THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC</align> <align>Article 79. The President of the Republic shall exercise the Executive Power on behalf of the people and  within the limits prescribed by the Constitution.</align> <align>Article 80.  The President of the Republic is the Chief of State.  The   law   shall   prescribe   the   honors   and p rivileges due to his office.</align> <align>Article 81. 1. The President of the Republic is elected by the people  by  general,  secret,  direct  and  uniform  ballot. 2. Terms stipulated in Article 43 of  the  Constitution shall apply to electors. 3.	The candidate obtaining the 1argest number of votes of the electors shall be considered successful.</align> <align>Article 82. i.	A candidate to be  eligible  for  the  Presidency of the Republic shall fulfil the following conditions: (a ) He must be Syrian by birth. (b)	He must possess qualifications for candidature to the Chamber of Deputies. (c)	He must have  completed  his  fortieth  year  of age. 2. The candidature of a woman shall  not  be accepted for the Presidency of the Republic. 3 The Electoral Law shall contain special pro visions for the nomination and  election  of  the President of the Republic. 4.	The election of the new President of the  Republic should  be  effected  at  most  four  months  and at  least  two  months  before  the  term  of  office  of the holder of the Presidency expires.</align> <align>Article 83. The term of the President of the Re public is five years.  He  assumes  his  office  on  the  day  the  term  of his predecessor expires.</align> <align>Article 84. i.	The office of the  Presidency  of  the  Republic and of a Deputy in  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  cannot be held simultaneously. 2. The President of  the Republic is not permitted  to fill any other office or engage  in  industry  or trade, or occupy any administrative post in any institution which operates for profit.</align> <align>Article 85. Before  assuming  office  the  President  of   the  Republic shall take the following oath before the Chamber of Deputies : I swear by God and  my  honor  to  be  I a faithful  to the Constitution of the country and its laws, to respect them and defend them,  and  I  will  protect the  freedoms,  interests,  property  and  dignity   of the people and I  shall  spare  no  means  or  effort to preserve the independence of the country and its republican regime,  and  to  defend  the  integrity of its territory, and to work for the perfection   of the freedom of the Arab Nation and the achievement of its unity.</align> <align>Article 86. The resignation of the President shall be effected by a message addressed to the people and published by the President of the Chamber of Deputies.</align> <align>Article 87. 1. The President of the Republic shall be held responsible for violating  the  Constitution  and  for High Treason. 2. He shall  also  be  responsible  for  ordinary  crimes.</align> <align>Article 88. 1. The  President  of  the  Republic  shall  not  be tried except by the Supreme Court. 2. A motion to refer the President of  the  Republic  for  trial  before  the  Supreme  Court   may not be discussed unless at least one-fourth of the Deputies present a written  request  to  the President of the Chamber making the motion and giving reasons therefor. The request shall  be  referred, before its discussion, to the Constitutional and Judicial Committees meeting jointly. The two Committees shall submit their  report  within  three  days of the receipt of the request. A special meeting shall then be fixed to discuss the request and no other matter may be discussed therein. 3. The President of the Republic may, in no circumstance be referred for trial before the Supreme Court except with the app royal of two-thirds of the total number of Deputies. 4.	When the President of the Republic is  referred for trial to the Supreme Court, he shall relinquish his powers until this Court shall have  given its decision. The resignation of the President shall not prevent his trial.</align> <align>Article 89. i.	The  President   of   the   Chamber   of   Deputies shall exercise the duties of the President of the Republic in an  acting  capacity  in  the  following cases: (a)	At the request of the President of  the Republic in case of his sickness or  temporary absence from the country. (b)	If the President of the Republic is referred for trial to the Supreme Court. (c)	When  it  is  impossible   for   the   President of the Republic to perform the duties of his office owing  to  justificatory  reasons  that  should be  fully  set  out  in  a  Decision  of   the   Chamber of  Deputies  ta ken  by  a  two-thirds   majority   of its members.  The  President   of   the   Chamber   of   Deputies shall  also  perform  the  duties  of  the  President   of the Republic in an acting capacity if the  reasons referred  to  in   Paragraph   ic   are  considered   to   be of a permanent  nature by  a decision of  the  Chamber  of Deputies, if the President of the Republic  is dismissed I rom his office by a verdict of  the  Supreme Court, and in the case of his  death  or resignation. In  these  cases,  the  President  of  the  Chamber  of Deputies,  in   his   capacity   as   Acting   President   of the Republic, shall ca11 for the election of a new President,   provided   that   the   election   shall   take place   within   two   months   at    the   latest   from    the d ate  of  the  vacancy  of  the  Presidency  for  one  of these reasons. 3. The President of the  Chamber  of  Deputies  shall  relinquish  the  Presidency   of   the  Chamber in favor of the  vice  President  throughout  the period  during  which  he  is  performing  the  duties of the President of the Republic in an  acting capacity.</align> <align>Article 90. The emoluments of  the  President  of  the  Republic shall be fixed by law.</align> <align>Article 91. The President of the Republic is the Supreme Commander of  the  Army,  and  the  Chairman  of the Council of National Defense.</align> <align>Article 92. In addition to the conduct of the  general  policy and administration of the State, and to other functions specifically  mentioned  in  the  other  Articles of the Constitution, the office of President of the Republ ie shall include the following functions: . (a)	Inauguration   of   the   legislative   sessions of  the  Chamber  of   Deputies   by  statements   explaining  the  country’s  domestic   and   foreign   aft airs, problems f acing it,  and  plans  for  dealing with these problems. (b)	Communications with the Chamber of Deputies by messages to be addressed to the President of  the  Chamber.  These  must  be  read at the first meeting after the receipt thereof. (c)	Appointment of officials according to law must be appointed by decree. (d )  Accrediting  of  Ambassadors  and  Ministers  Plenipotentiary  to  heads  of  foreign   states, and the acceptance of credentials  of  heads  of foreign  diplomatic  missions  accredited  to   him, and  in  general,   the   various   relations   with foreign states. ( e) Declaration of war  after consultation  with the Council  of  National  Defense  and  the  approval of the Chamber of Deputies. (f)	Adoption of necessary defense measures  after consultation with the Council of National Defense. (g)	Conclusion  of  peace  after   consultation with the Council of National  Defense  and  approval of the Chamber of Deputies. (h )   In   case  of   need,   however,   proclamation  of a state of emergency with  the  approval  of  the Chamber of Deputies.  The  President  of  the Republic shall be entitled to proclaim a state of emergency for a period not exceeding one month, provided the  Chamber  of  Deputies  is  promptly notified  and  given  the  exclusive   right   to  extend   it. A   general   or   localized    state   of    emergency    may be  proclaimed  in  cases  of  danger  of   war,  during a state of war, in wartime, in cases of internal disturbances, and public calamities. The proclamation of a state of emergency involves the imposition of restrictions on, or the temporary suspension of guarantees connected with the sanctity of persons, homes, with the freedoms of the press, of communications, of assembly,   and   of   forming   societies.    This    shall in no case amount  to  interference  in  judicial affairs. Regulations relating to  a  state  of  emergency and its consequences shall be  defined  by  Low which  shall  be  passed  by   an   absolute   majority of the Deputies. (i ) Proclamation of general or partial mobilization. (j )   Exercising   the   prerogative   of    pardon. This prerogative shall not include  pardoning persons sentenced by the Supreme Court in accordance with Paragraph ib of Article 7 of the Constitution.</align> <align>Article 93. 1. A Bureau of Inspection shall  be  established  and attached to the Presidency of the Republic. 2.  The   cadre,    jurisdiction,    and    the    immunities of members of this Bureau shall be defined by Low.</align> <align>SECTION 2. THE CABINET</align> <align>Article 94. 1. In the exercise of his executive powers, the President of the Republic shall be assisted by the Ministers of the State. 2. He shall nominate them,  dismiss  them,  and accept resignations by a decree which he shall communicate to the Chamber of Deputies.</align> <align>Article 95. 1. A Minister must fulfil the same conditions prescribed for candidacy for the Chamber and must have completed his 30th year.   ministration, or  institutions  under  State  administration or subject to its Control. He shall also be prohibited from being a member of the board of directors of any company, or  from  being  an  agent thereof, and from taking  part  in  commercial activities. 3. It shall not  be  permissible  to  hold  the  offices of Minister and Deputy simultaneously. A Minister may not stand as a candidate  for  the  Chamber except  after  having  resigned  from  his  office   by   a period to be fixed by law. 4. Emoluments for  Ministers  shall   be   fixed   by law. 3.	A Minister shall lose his office if  a  judicial  verdict or an emergency disqualifies him under  Paragraph i of this Article.</align> <align>Article 96. The law shall determine the number of Ministries and the  public  departments,  their  functions,  and the duties of each Minister.</align> <align>Article 97. i.	Each Minister shall sign Regulative Decrees and Decrees issued by the President of the Republic pertaining to matters within his jurisdiction. 2. Each Minister  is  responsible  to  the  President of the Republic for his acts in his Ministry. A Minister shall issue his decisions in implementation of laws, regulations and decrees. He may not, independently of the President  of  the Republic,  take in his Ministry decisions bearing upon the general policy of the State. 3.	The Ministers shall submit to the President reports on the progress of work in their Ministries.</align> <align>Article 98. i.	Ministers shall be held responsible fo r viol ation of the Constitution, High Treason, and ordinary crimes. 2.  A  Minister  may  not  be  detained  except  in cases of Fla gran ie deficit or in execution of a judicial verdict.</align> <align>Article 99. 1. Ministers shall be tried for violation of the Constitution and High Treason before the Supreme Court. In prosecuting  them,  in  referring  them  for trial,  and  in  the  trial  before  the  said  Court,  the same  procedure  as  for  the   trial  of   the   President of  the  Republic  shall   be  followed.  The   President of  the  Republic  or  one-fourth  of  the  members  of the  Chamber  of  Deputies   may   present   the   letter of  impeachment  and  the   application   for   reference to the Court. A Minister  referred  to  the  Supreme Court shall be suspended from duty until  the  Court shall have decided on  the  charges  brought  against him. His resignation shall not prevent his trial. 2. Ministers shall be tried for ordinary offenses  before the civil courts in accordance with the provisions of the law. In such  cases,  the  case  against  him  shall  not  be  heard  by  the  competent  court until  permission  is  obtained  from  the  Supreme Court, except in cases of fla9rante delicto.</align> <align>SECTION 3. LOCAL AUTHORITIES</align> <align>Article 100. Laws shall be inspired by the principle  of  extending the  jurisdiction  of  chiefs  of  a  administrative units and chiefs of departments  at  headquarters and in the provinces.</align> <align>Article 101. 1. In every province a council shall be  established ; three-fourths of its members shall be elected and one-fourth appointed. 2. The law shall fix the term of the council, the number of its members, the procedure for election, and the conditions of appointment. 3.	The council of a province shall elect its  president and the  members  of  its  executive  office.  The law shall fix their term  of  office,  their  powers,  and the procedure of exercising their function.</align> <align>Article 102. The principal duties of the council of  a  province is participation in the following matters: i.	Combatting disease by the expansion of free health services and maternity and infant care. 2. Combatting ignorance by the establishment of nurseries and primary, elementary, and vocational schools, by educating  illiterates  and  participation in disseminating education. 3. Providing safe drinking water in villages and towns, building of networks of local roads and extending the use of electricity. 4.  Defining  boundaries   of   municipal   areas   in the provinces. 5.	Holding and organizing exhibitions. 6.	Promotions of tourism and  summer  vacationing, and supervision of hotels. 7 Organization  of  local  means  of   communications. 8.	Utilization of mineral waters. 9.	Promoting afforestation and tree planting. 10. Encouraging and participating in charity activities. 11. Organization and utilization of sea and river fishing, and game hunting.</align> <align>Article 103. i.	The special revenue of the province for the performance of its task shall consist of: (a)	A percentage share, to be fixed by law, taken from the general taxes collected in the province or added thereto. These  duties  shall   not   affect   the   movement of persons and the transit of goods between provinces,  nor shall  it  restrict  the  right  of  citizens to   practice   their   professions   and   trades   within the  national   territory.  The law shall regulate the  accounting cedure of the councils of provinces.</align> <align>Article 104. The council of the province shall determine the manner of expenditure in matters within its jurisdiction.</align> <align>Article 105. The  procedure  for  discussions  and  decisions  in the councils of the provinces, the manner of implementation,  and  supervision  of  their  work,  shall be determined by law.</align> <align>Chapter III - The Judiciary Power</align> <align>Article 106. The judiciary power shall be independent.</align> <align>Article 107. 1. Judges shall be independent, and in exercising their  judicial  function   they   shall   not   be   subject to any authority other than the law.  2. The honor, conscience, and integrity  of  judges are  a  guarantee  of  the   rights   and   freedoms   of  the people. 3. Before assuming  office,   a  judge  shall  swear that he shall administer justice to the people with equity  and shall respect the law.   4.	Judgments shall be given in the name of the Syrian people,  and they shall state the grounds on which they were based.</align> <align>Article 108. Judicial power in the  state  shall  be  exercised  by: (a ) The Supreme Court. (b)	The Court of Cassation. (c)	Other courts.</align> <align>Article 109. i.	Judges shall be  appointed  by  decree  in  ac cord ance with  the  provisions  of  the  law,   based  on a decision of the Sppreme Judiciary Council.   2. The promotion, transfer, dismissal of, and the taking of disciplinary   proceedings  against  judges shall be in accordance with the provision of the of law based on a decision of the Supreme Judiciary province   shall   impose   within   the   limits of  the	Council.</align> <align>Article 110. 1.  The   Public   Prosecutions   Institution   shall   be one   organization   presided   over    by   the   Minister Of Justice.  2. The Public Prosecutions  Institution   shall   be guard justice, insure the  implementation  of  laws,  prosecute violators of the law, and execute penal sentences against them.      3. The cadre of Public Prosecutions  shall  be fixed by law.  The appointment, promotion, and transfer ,   and  the  taking  of  disciplinary  proceedings against public prosecutors shall be within   the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice.</align> <align>Article 111. The cadre and grade of civilian and milita ry courts, and  the  salaries  of  judges  shall  be  fixed by law.</align> <align>Article 112. The  cadre  of  judicial  assistants   shall   be   fixed by law. Their appointment, promotion, transfer, dismissal, and the taking of  disciplinary  p roceedings  against  them,  shall  be  within  the  jurisdiction of the Ministry of Ju9tice.</align> <align>SECTION 1. THE SUPREME COURT</align> <align>Article 113. 1. The  Supreme  Court  shall  be  composed  of seven members, one of whom shall be named its President. 2. A member of the Court shall I ulfil the following conditions: (a)	Possess the  qualifications  of  a  candidate for the Chamber. (b)	Be the holder of the Law Degree of the Syrian University or its equivalent. (c)	Must have completed his both year. (d ) Must have practiced as a judge, as a  lawyer, and taught in a university, or  any  of these, for not less than ten years.</align> <align>Article 114. 1. The President  of  the  Republic  shall  nominate the President and members of the  Supreme  Court upon the approval of the Chamber of Deputies. 2. If the osice of one of the members  of  the Supreme Court  becomes  vacant  for  any  reason  when the  Chamber  of  Deputies  is  not  in  session, the President of the Republic may nominate  a successor with the approval of the Chambe r’s Permanent Committee. 3.	A member of the  Supreme  Court  shall  remain in his post for five years. He may be denominated.   4.	The resignation of a member of the Supreme  Court room his office shall be submitted to the President of the Republic. H is resignation becomes effective  immediately  and  shall  be   communicated to the Chamber of Deputies. 5. A member of the S u preme Court may not be dismissed except by a decision approved by  the absolute majority of its members,  and  communicated to  the  President  of  the  Republic  and  the  Chamber of Deputies.</align> <align>Article 115. The  President  and  members  of  the  Supreme  Court shall take the following  oath  before  the Chamber of Deputies: I swear by God and my honor to respect the Constitution of laws of the country and  to  discharge my duty with impartiality and honesty.</align> <align>Article 116. A Low, approved by the absolute majority of the Deputies, shall be enacted to define: (a)	The prerogatives and immunities of members of the Supreme Court and  the  manner  of their tri a1 and officies which they may not hold simultaneously with membership of the Court. (b)	The crimes of viol ating the Constitution, High Treason, and the penalties therefor. (c)	The procedure for prosecution, objection, defense, trial, hearing, and adjudication in the Supreme Court on matters f ailing within its jurisdiction.</align> <align>Article 117. i.	The  Supreme  Court  shall  basically   consider and take final decisions in the following matters: (a)	Constitutionality  of  laws   referred   to   it in accordance with Article 75. (b)	The trial of the President  of  the  Republic and the Ministers. (c)	Applications for the annulment of Decrees appointing  Ministers,  on  grounds  of  inconsistency with the provisions  of  the  law  or  the  Constitution.  Such  applications  shall  be  considered  only if submitted by at least one-fourth  of  the Deputies  or of members of the Chamber’s Permanent Committee and within one week of their communication   to   the   Chamber,   and   sh aI1   be  final ly decided   by   the   Supreme   Court   within   one    week of their submission. (d)	Decisions of the Chamber of Deputies to objections raised against the elections and which  have been submitted to the Supreme Court under Paragraph i of Article 61. ( e) Applications for the repeal of Regul ative Decrees  inconsistent  with  the  Constitution  or the Law if submitted by  one-fou rth  of  the  members of the Chamber of Deputies, or by at least  one-fourth of the members of its Permanent Committee. 2. The Supreme Court shall also deal with applications for the trial of Ministers before the civil courts for ordinary  offenses.  A  decision  on  such an application shall be taken within a maximum period of one week. 3.	The Supreme Court  shall  also  consider  as  part of its original jurisdiction, and shall  give  final decisions on applications for the annulment of administrative acts and decisions  as  well  as  of Decrees inconsistent with the  law  or  the  Constitution or with Regulative Decrees, if such  applications are contained in  petitions  submitted  by persons  suffering  injury  therefrom  or  are   submitted by at least one-fourth of members of the Chamber of Deputies or of  its  Permanent  Committee.</align> <align>SECTION   2.  THE	SUPREME JUDICIAL COUNCIL</align> <align>Article 118. i.	The Supreme Judicial Council shall be  composed of seven members. (a ) The President of  the  Supreme  Court  shall act as chairman. (b)	Two members  of  the  Supreme  Court, chosen by the said Court. (c)	The four senior judges of the Court of Causation. 2. The  Council  shall  supervise  the  affairs  of judges relating to functions of their ofice.</align> <align>Article 119. The President of the Supreme  Judicial  Council and the Minister of Justice may submit proposals regarding the appointment of judges, their promotion, their transfer, disciplinary action against them, and their dismissal, in accordance with the provisions of the law. The Supreme Judicial  Council shall decide on these proposals by an absolute majority and communicate it to the Ministry of Justice  for  implementation  by  a  decree  or  order in accordance with the provisions of the law. </align> <align>Article 120. The Supreme Judicial Council may  propose  to the  President  of   the   Republic   bills   relating   to judges, their immunity, the procedure for their appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary measures against them, and their dismissa1.</align> <align>Part Three - Amendment of the Constitution</align> <align>Article 121. 1. The President  of  the  Republic  and  the  Deputies sha1I be entitled to request the amendment of  one or more Articles  of  the  Constitution,  provided the following conditions are fulfilled: (a)	The request for amendment shall cite the Articles which it is desired to amend, the new proposed form, and the  reasons  of  the  petitioner for it. (b)	If the request is submitted  by  the  Deputies,  it  should  be  signed  by  one-fourth  or  more of their total number. (c)	The  Chamber  shall  discuss  the   request  for the  amendment  which  shall  be  adopted  only by a vote of the  absolute  majority  of  its  members. If the request is rejected, it shal1 be considered final. A renewed request for the  amendment of the same Articles shall not be possible before the beginning of the ordinary session following that in which the amendment  was  rejected. (d ) If the request for the amendment is ap proved by an absolute  majority  of  the  Deputies, this  shall  be  considered  a  motion  in   Iavor   of the amendment. (e) In the ordinary session  of  the  Chamber  which follows the session in which the motion in favor  of  amendment  is  adopted,  the  Chamber shall discuss the Articles whose amendment is proposed. If two-thirds  of  members  of  the Chamber adopt the amendment, it shall become effective and shall be integrated into the Constitution. 2. The President of the Republic, Deputies, and members  of  the  Supreme  Court  must  renew  the oath upon the amended  Constitution  within  two weeks after its approval.</align> <align>Part  Four	Transitional Provisions</align> <align>Article 122. The consideration of an application for the amendment of the Constitution shall not  be  permitted before the lapse of  two  years  from  the  date the Constitution becomes effective.</align> <align>Article 123. 1. The adoption of this  Constitution  shall  be effected  by  a  public  referendum  to   be   held   on the same day when the  President  of  the  Republic shall be elected for  the  first  time,  in  accordance  with the legislation in force on that day. 2. The executive  powers  invested  in  the  Council of Ministers and the President of this Council, in accordance  with  legislation   in  force   on  the   day  of the approval of the Constitution, shall automatically pass to the President of the Republic. 3.	The President of the Republic, elected in accordance with Paragraph i of this  Article,  shall exercise his power immediately after the announcement of the results of the election.</align> <align>Article 124. i.	Until  the  pending  election  of   members   for the Chamber of Deputies for the first time  is completed,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions   of the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall have the power to promulgate the legislative decrees necessary for the conduct of affairs in the country. These  legislative   decrees   shall   be   deposited   in the office of  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  at  the  time of its election. Proposals for the amendment or cancellation of these decrees submitted by Deputies during the first ordinary session of the Chamber shall have the character of urgency. 2. The President  of  the  Republic shall  promulgate a  legislative  decree  containing  the  Electoral   Law in accordance with the provisions of  the  Constitution. This Law  shall  contain  a  provision  which  shall  be enforced for ten years at least, defining the educational degree  a  candidate  for  the  Chamber must possess. The first parliamentary  elections  shall be held under provisions of the Law within three months at the latest after the enactment of the Constitution. 3.	The President of the Republic elected in accordance with the provisions of the previous Article shall take the Constitutional Oath before the first Chamber of Deputies after this  Chamber  shall  have elected  its  own  President  and  members  of its Office during its first session.</align> <align>Article 125. i.	The State shall  put  an  end  to  the  nomadic  state of the beduins by  settling  the  tribes  and granting their members land and the necessary assistance for their settlement. 2. The Electoral Law may include special temporary provisions regarding the conduct of elections among the tribes. These provisions shall take into account the  position  of  the  tribes  regarding  the Civil Register prerequisites  of  candidature  and method of voting.  The  provisions  of  this  Article shall apply only to the first Parliamentary elections.</align> <align>Article 126. The Law of the Supreme  Court  provided  for  in  this  Constitution  shall  be  promulgated  and  the Court established, and  the  Supreme  Judicial  Council formed, before the end  of  the  first  ordinary session of the first Chamber of Deputies.</align> <align>Article 127. Existing legislation in conflict with this Constitution shall remain in force until amended in accordance with provisions of this Constitution.</align> <align>Article 128. The    Constitution    proclaimed    on   September    , 1950, shall be considered annulled as from  November 29, 1951. All the authoritative measures adopted since that date shall be considered  as  acts  of authority.</align> <align>Article 129. This Constitution shall become effective immediately  after  the  announcement  of   its  adoption by the referendum of the people provided  for  in Article  iz3.  Results  of  the   referendum   and   the text of the Constitution  shall  then  be  published  in the Official Gazette.</align>