Yemen 1978 constitution PREAMBLE  Our Yemenic People in the two parts of the homeland had striven valiantly side by side to oust the invaders who were avaricious for its land and against the reactionary Imamite regime in the Northern part of the homeland and against colonialism, feudalism and rule of the Sultans in the Southern part of the homeland. Such is the living expression of the unity of the Yemeni people and Yemeni land.  The Yemeni people detonated the 26th September revolution and defended the republican regime in the Northern part of the homeland. It also detonated the 14th October revolution under the leadership of the National Front and achieved independence on the 30th of November.  All this affirms that despite the unnatural situations of the false division of the Yemeni land and people its struggle in the two parts is dialectically correlated in its unity not only against the imperialist and reactionary cabals against the Yemeni homeland but also for the purpose of finally getting rid of the division and restoring the natural situation for the democratic unity of Yemen.  Since the glorious corrective move on the 22nd of June 1969, a number of progressive achievements have been realized in all the fields, political, economical, social and cultural. Such were attained by arduous struggle for the purpose of fully realizing the noble aims for the materialization of which the toiling masses of our people-workers, peasants, intelligentsia, petty bourgeoisie and all honest groups of the people have been struggling. These aims are basically among the aims of the two revolutions of 26th September 1962 and 14th October 1963. The struggle of the Yemeni people shall continue until the realization of all the tasks of the national democratic revolution stage, the stategy of the Yemeni revolution including the construction of the United Democratic Yemen under the leadership of our Yemeni Socialist Party — the party of the Yemeni working class, its allies and the rest ot the groups of the democratic and national movement — in our Yemeni homeland.  The struggle of our Yemeni people is dialectally correlated with the struggle of the Arab and other peoples on the way to freedom, democratic and social progress and peace. Our Yemeni people believe that their struggle is interconnected with the unity of the struggle of the Arab revolution movement for the purpose of realizing the democratic progressive Arab unity.  The Yemeni people regard all that they have achieved in their struggles as a revolutionary contribution to the international and Arab revolution movement.  Our Yemeni people consider this Constitution as the general basis for their national democratic regime and as organizing the political, economical, social and cultural life.
