Preamble   Reference to country's history  In the Name of God, the Merciful and the Compassionate.   The continuous attachment of the Arab Palestinian people to the land of their  fathers and forefathers, on which this people has historically lived, is a fact that has  been expressed in the Declaration of Independence, issued by the Palestine National  Council. The strength of this attachment is confirmed by its consistency over time  and place, by keeping faith with and holding onto national identity, and in the  realization of wondrous accomplishments of struggle. The organic relationship  between the Palestinian people, their history and their land has confirmed itself in  their unceasing effort to prompt the world to recognize the rights of the Arab  Palestinian people and their national entity, on equal footing with other nations.  The birth of the Palestinian National Authority in the national homeland of Palestine,  the land of their forefathers, comes within the context of continuous and vigorous  struggle, during which the Palestinian people witnessed thousands of their precious  children sacrificed as martyrs, injured persons and prisoners of war, all in order to  achieve their people's clear national rights, the foremost of which are the right of  return, the right to self-determination and the right to establish an independent  Palestinian state, with Jerusalem as a capital, under the leadership of the Palestine  Liberation Organization, the sole, legitimate representative of the Arab Palestinian  people wherever they exist.  Within the framework of the interim period, resulting in the Declaration of Principles  Agreement, the establishment of the Palestinian National Authority with its three  pillars - the legislative, executive and judicial branches - became among the most  urgent of national missions. The establishment of the Palestinian Legislative Council,  through free and direct general elections, made the adoption of a Basic Law suitable  for the interim period a necessary foundation upon which to organize the mutual  relationship between the government and the people. It is a first step on the way to  determining the distinguishing characteristics of a civil society capable of achieving  its independence. At the same time, it is a basic foundation upon which to enact  unifying legislation and law for the Palestinian national homeland.  This Basic Law has established a firm foundation, representing the collective  conscience of our people, including its spiritual components, its national faith and its  nationalist loyalty. The titles of the Basic Law include a group of modern  constitutional rules and principles that address public and personal rights and  liberties in a manner that achieves justice and equality for all, without discrimination.  Further, they ensure the rule of law, strike a balance between the executive,  legislative and judicial branches, and draw lines between their respective  jurisdictions in a manner that ensures independence to each of them while  coordinating their roles to achieve a high national interest that will serve as a guide  to all.  The enactment of this temporary Basic Law for a transitional and interim period  constitutes a fundamental step towards the realization of the firm national and  historical rights of the Arab Palestinian people. It shall not in any way whatsoever  abrogate or cancel their right to continue to strive to achieve their rights of return  and self-determination, including the establishment of a Palestinian state with  Jerusalem (al-Quds al-Sharif) as its capital, which is the first shrine and the third  mosque, to which the Prophet Muhammad, may peace be upon him, traveled by  night, in the land of the nativity of Jesus, may peace be upon him.
