Lebanon's Constitution of 1926 with Amendments through 2004 Preamble Preamble to the Constitution A. Lebanon is a sovereign, free, and independent homeland. An ultimate homeland for all its sons; unitary in terms of land, people, and institutions, within its boundaries; as provided in this Constitution, and as recognized internationally. B. Lebanon has an Arab identity and belonging. It is a founding active member of the Arab League, committed to its Charter; as it is a founding active member of the United Nations Organization, committed to its Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The State embodies these principles in all sectors and scopes without exception. International law International human rights treaties Regional group(s) C. Lebanon is a democratic parliamentary republic based upon the respect of public freedoms, freedom of opinion and freedom of belief; and of social justice and equality in rights and duties among all citizens, without distinction or preference. D. The people are the source of powers and of sovereignty, exercising the through constitutional institutions. E. The system is based upon the principle of separation of powers, their balance, and their cooperation. F. The economic system is free, guaranteeing individual initiative and private ownership. Right to competitive marketplace Right to own property G. Balanced development of regions, culturally, socially, and economically, is a cornerstone of the State unity and the system stability. H. Eliminating political sectarianism is a basic national objective, to be achieved according to a transitional plan. Transitional provisions I. The territory of Lebanon is one for all Lebanese. Every Lebanese has the right to reside on any part thereof, and enjoy it under the sovereignty of the law. No segregation of the people on any belonging whatsoever. No segregation, no partition, and no inhabitation. Freedom of movement J. There is no legitimacy to any authority contradicting the charter of co-existence.
